# DRIM-ANN
## Dependency
* The faiss library: integrated to the cluster locating phase on CPU. Install by conda at: https://github.com/facebookresearch/faiss
  
To avoid dependency on faiss, this repo provides a version without faiss as well. You can try this by replacing the folder `host` by `hostNoFaiss`, and replacing `Makefile` by `Makefile.noFaiss`. This version supports hyperthreading and AVX2 by default, and you can change the use of `knn_L2sqr` into `knn_L2sqrAVX512` in `host/tools/src/tools.cpp` and the `CXXFLAGS` in `Makefile.noFaiss` into the annotated one if your machine supports AVX512. However, the implementation has not been deeply optimized, so it is 2~4 times slower than the faiss implementation, especially in cases that `nlist` is large.
## Index & query data
1. Index data example: example index data are provided in the `offlineFiles` folder at https://zenodo.org/records/16752350. Download the whole data folder and move it to the local folder to use them.
2. Query data example: example query data are provided in the `datasets` folder at https://zenodo.org/records/16752350. Download the whole data folder and move it to the local folder to use them.
3. Index data generation: source codes are also provided for index generation in `genOfflineFiles` folder. Note that it would take several hours to generate all indexes of this experiment even with GPU. The `genIndex` folder contains faiss-based implementations for generating centroids, clusters, cluster sizes, and the codebook, which requires prior faiss and cmake installation (use `ln -s ../../faiss faiss` in `genIndex` before use the codes). Other index data including the SQT, cluster layout and some auxiliary data for attempts of cluster-level and vector-level lossless algorithm pruning (though with negligible benefits) can be generated by codes beyond the `genIndex` folder in `../genOfflineFiles` folder. You can compile them with g++-9 (codes in the `genIndex` folder are compiled by cmake instead) and use `-h` parameter to check their usages. Put the generated index data into the `offlineFiles` folder.
## How to test
Make sure that index & query data have been downloaded and placed in this folder. Then execute the following commands:
```
mkdir build
mkdir -p ckpts/SIFT100M
mkdir ckpts/DEEP100M
make run
```
## How to check the results
Check the log and top-k neighbor files in the `build` and `ckpts` folders respectively. Please refer to the Appendix of Artifact Description/Artifact Evaluation of the SC2025 article for more details. For visualization, please use the python script `logVisual.py` like this and check throughput excel/bar-graph results in `Excels` and `Figures` folders respectively:
```
python logVisual.py --excel-dir-name Excels --diagram-dir-name Figures
```
## Thanks
 * Library of priority queue. The implementations of priority queue in `dpu/libpqueue` in UPMEM_d and UPMEM_h are modified to suit the demands of UPMEM from the implementation here: https://github.com/vy/libpqueue
 * MSR fetching. The implementations of `rdmsr` and related functions in `host/measureEnergy.c` in UPMEM_d and UPMEM_h for energy measurement are modified from the implementation here: https://github.com/lixiaobai09/intel_power_consumption_get/blob/master/powerget.c
 * The basic directory structure of the repo is learned from the upmemGCiM project: https://github.com/KMC20/upmemGCiM
 * The faiss library: https://github.com/facebookresearch/faiss
 * SIFT dataset: http://corpus-texmex.irisa.fr
 * DEEP dataset: https://research.yandex.com/blog/benchmarks-for-billion-scale-similarity-search
## Reference
If you feel this repo is useful for you, don't hesitate to star this!😀 And it is really kind of you to cite this repo in your paper or project.

If you feel DRIM-ANN is interesting, please cite:

```
Mingkai Chen, Tianhua Han, Cheng Liu, Shengwen Liang, Kuai Yu, Lei Dai, Ziming Yuan, Ying Wang, Lei Zhang, Huawei Li, and Xiaowei Li. 2025. DRIM-ANN: An Approximate Nearest Neighbor Search Engine based on Commercial DRAM-PIMs. In The International Conference for High Performance Computing, Networking, Storage and Analysis (SC ’25), November 16–21, 2025, St Louis, MO, USA. SC, Saint Louis, MO, USA, 13 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3712285.3759801
```
or
```
@misc{chen2024drimannapproximatenearestneighbor,
      title={DRIM-ANN: An Approximate Nearest Neighbor Search Engine based on Commercial DRAM-PIMs}, 
      author={Mingkai Chen and Tianhua Han and Cheng Liu and Shengwen Liang and Kuai Yu and Lei Dai and Ziming Yuan and Ying Wang and Lei Zhang and Huawei Li and Xiaowei Li},
      year={2024},
      eprint={2410.15621},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.PF},
      url={https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.15621}, 
}
```
